Krautoload is a pluggable PHP class autoloader library that makes you fantasize of Kartoffelbrei, Kasseler and Sauerkraut.  
It has native support for
- [PSR-0](https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-0.md)
- Variation of PSR-0 which allows shallow directory structures.
- PEAR (that is the old-school pattern with underscores instead of namespaces)
- Variation of PEAR which allows shallow directory structures.
- The [proposed PSR-X](https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/proposed/autoloader.md), which is a shallow-dir variation of PSR-0 without the special underscore handling.

Besides that, custom plugins can be mapped to any namespaces and prefixes.  
This way, you can easily support old-school libraries which don't support any standards, without bloating the SPL autoload stack.

Krautoload is designed to perform equally well no matter how many namespaces are registered.


## Project status and history

The project is to be considered in "Preview" status.  
It should work ok, but API details may still change based on community feedback.
Especially, the term "PSR-X" may change in the future, if it gets accepted.

A cache layer (APC) basically exist, but is not accessible yet.

The project is a spin-off of the ["xautoload" module for Drupal](http://drupal.org/project/xautoload), with some changes.  

Unlike xautoload, Krautoload is written in anticipation of the hopefully upcoming PSR-X.  
It is optimized for PSR-X, and needs a tiny-tiny extra operation if wired up with PSR-0, for the special underscore handling.


## Purpose / Audience

Modern PHP projects typically use class loading solutions shipped with the framework, or provided by Composer.
Thus, Krautoload is mainly aimed at framework developers, for copying or inspiration.


## Usage

Krautoload provides a start-off class with static methods, for those who want to avoid a lengthy bootstrap.  
Alternative bootstrap helpers may be provided based on your feedback.

```php
require_once "$path_to_krautoload/src/Krautoload.php";

// Create the class loader and register it.
$krautoload = Krautoload::start();

// Register additional namespaces
$krautoload->namespacePSR0('FooVendor\FooPackage', "$path_to_foo_package/src");

new FooVendor\FooPackage\Foo\Bar\Baz();
```

See [Krautoload\RegistrationHub](https://github.com/donquixote/krautoload/blob/master/src/Krautoload/RegistrationHub.php)
to see all the available registration methods.


### Usage with Composer

Krautoload can be used instead of the autoload.php generated by Composer.  
Boot Krautoload like above, and then

```php
// Let Krautoload look for the files defining the namespace map and class map.
$krautoload->composerVendorDir($vendor_dir);
```


## Unit tests

Krautoload is designed to be unit-testable, better than other class loaders.  
Its architecture allows to mock out and simulate all hits to the filesystem (file_exists(), require_once, etc).

Unfortunately, I have no experience with testing frameworks outside of Drupal (yet).  
Thus, no tests exist yet.  
(but there are tests in Drupal xautoload, which show that the architecture is ok)


## Benchmarks

Benchmarks would be nice to have, but they do not exist yet. Any help
appreciated.

Like Tests, benchmarks *can* be programmed with a mocked-out filesystem, where
instead of actually doing file inclusion or file_exists(), we simply count the
number of times this would happen.

This will not tell us the real duration in a live environment, but it will
determine the time used for the actual class finding much more accurately than
with the natural variations of filesystem operations.
